product not yet rated
[Music]
[Applause]
yes I am a geek and a Greek oh sorry I'm
a hidden geek I am a complete geek well
I don't think so I like to keep up with
the latest trends on the high streets
but I'm a bit of a geek I've had the
traditional geek bringing up I had a
chemistry set at the age of 7 Tim rants
is a very big geek yeah but I mean we
can sort of make exceptions for some
people attention to all sorts of very
obscure technical details that bores
everybody stupid C T G stands for
central technology group and the purpose
of the central technology group is to
create reusable technology that can be
used by all other game teams if I asked
you to build a house and presented you
with a big pile of rocks and trees and
concrete and so on the first thing
you've probably asked me for would be
the right tools the specific advantages
of CTG within the company for the games
is that they can focus purely on the
gameplay they don't have to worry about
writing tools again writing technology
against the tools that we create are in
use by the fable team and they aren't
tools that you can just buy
off-the-shelf
a follow-up project or game will use the
same code and tools that we've produced
and they can go straight into making the
game and producing cool games for
everybody currently I'm working on a
spline tool that means splines are
basically curves so I'm trying to make a
tool to help people put things on curves
Lionhead has been making these tools and
games for the past 10 years and to
celebrate our anniversary a big fancy
dress party was planned
I've taken two days off to build my
costume which is Pyramid Head from
silent I spent so long deliberating
whether I should go as the film version
which has a little bit more recognizable
I'll be the Russian really hardcore and
ghost game version and I kind of bottled
out and went for the film for I was in
I don't seem to be getting anywhere
really but I might need to go for a
little sit-down one of the things that's
a real struggle for game developers it's
fitting all of those assets into memory
and onto the DVDs what we've done is
developed some compression routines that
squashes down the data so that it will
fit in the available memory and we've
done this with animations which take up
huge amounts of memory uncompressed
we've done it with textures which are
the sort of beautiful pictures that go
onto the meshes that we create in an
animation which is basically the
movement of the character around the
world we've managed to squeeze those
down to just 1% of their original size
it just helps the pipeline of the
content from the people the creative
people through to the actual game itself
I told that one I was taking some days
off to do some charity work
I'll be I'll be getting it going
in line heads as we are focused on
creating games which cost tens of
millions of dollars sometimes it's great
to be able to have a small group of
people who can actually spend some time
that's not directly on the main game
development and instead can research a
bit of blue sky thinking one example of
that is we thought that would be very
interesting to look at new types of
combat we wanted to experiment with
something that really brought the drama
out of combat drama is important and
vital for combat because it gives it a
nice full fledged purpose a motivation
for the player the whole idea about it
is to trying leverage everything that
you can make the combat more it sizes
without actually changing the combat
itself so we can use a lot of stuff from
movies such as camerawork and music and
we can also use everything that we've
got any game with simulation and sound
effects the rumble on the joypad drama
must have one thing which make will make
the difference between just a normal
fighting or repetitive fighting
mechanics and and turn it into an
experience
it's Hallowes
[Music]
apart from running out of paint and I'm
finding out that this is coming up all
over me and my clothes there's a whole
range of things that have gone into
fable to to help the production of able
to end the game itself before God's a
certain sense of atmosphere Pete thought
it was a good idea to actually get our
fog machine in it was quite good fun
actually we put it in a bucket and all
of a sudden our bucket was full of mist
and we just spent an entire day playing
with it was great we used it to get a
good sense of how mist moves around and
and then I believe Peter Molyneux nicked
it for his pond at home only know you
still hasn't returned it strange things
are afoot in Peters garden
and it's not just the mystery of the
missing Falk machine Lionhead celebrated
its 10th anniversary install Pyramid
Head was in good company with numerous
game celebrities in attendance
[Music]